                             Eagle Attributes
                             16 February 2023


This document describes the Embed Inc conventions for using optional
attributes in Eagle, which were first made available in version 5.  In
previous versions a part could only have a few fixed attributes built into
Eagle, such as VALUE and NAME.  In version 5 these fixed attributes still
exist but arbitrary additional attributes can be created by the user.

This document specifies certain attributes that are expected by parts of
the Embed Inc system, mostly to aid in automatic bill of materials (BOM)
generation.  The process of generating a BOM from an eagle board or
schematic is desribed in the CSV_BOM program documentation file.

The Eagle optional attributes that have special meaning within the Embed
Inc system are:

  MANUF

    Manufacturer:partnum; manufacturer:partnum; ...

    The PARTNUM fields and their leading colons may be omitted, but is a
    bad idea unless only a single manufacturer is listed.

  PARTNUM

    Generic part number or part number within single manufacturer.

  SUPPLIER

    Supplier:partnum; supplier:partnum; ...

    The PARTNUM fields and their leading colons may be omitted, but is a
    bad idea unless only a single supplier is listed.

  INHOUSE

    Housename:partnum; Housename:partnum; ...

    Defines in-house or private part numbers within a list of
    organizations.  Each HOUSENAME is the name of an organization, and
    PARTNUM is the internal part number private to that organization.

  QTY

    Specifies the part quantity per single use.  In most cases, like
    resistors and capacitors, each component in the schematic or board
    uses 1 item.  However, some "parts" like a fuse are really a pair of
    board-mounted fuse clips.  Since two clips per fuse need to be bought
    and installed, QTY should be set to 2 in that case.

    QTY, when present, must be either empty or a numeric value.  When not
    present or the empty string, the default is 1.

  BOM

    Whether this part should be included on the BOM.  Some "parts" are
    only features on the board, like pogo pin pads for example.  These
    should not be listed on the BOM because they do not need to be bought
    and will not be installed.  Supported values are:

      YES

        Include this part in the BOM.  This is the default if the part has
        a package.

      NO

        Do not include this part in the BOM.  This is the default if the
        part does not have a package.

  VALSTAT

    Indicates how the VALUE attribute is used.  The choices are:

      VAL

        Normal part value, like the resistance of a resistor.  The part
        value will be listed on the BOM and used to distinguish different
        parts.  For example, a 10 kOhm resistor is a different part than a
        330 Ohm resistor.

      PARTNUM

        The part number.  The value field will be shown in the BOM and
        used to distinguish different parts, like VAL.  However, the part
        number field will be set to VALUE unless the part number is
        otherwise explicitly set.  VALSTAT PARTNUM is for generic library
        devices where the value field is used to show some or all of the
        part number on the schematic.  For example, the library might
        contain a generic 14 pin opamp device, and the value set to LM324
        to show the type of opamp on the schematic.  In this example,
        VALUE is only set to the generic part number without package type,
        temperature grade, etc.  In this case the PARTNUM attribute should
        be used to specify the exact part number, but VALSTAT should still
        be set to PARTNUM.

      LABEL

        Label intended for the silkscreen.  The value field will not be
        transferred to the BOM and will not be used to differentiate
        parts.  This might be used, for example, to label an LED on the
        board.  Different LEDs might be labeled "Power" and "Error", but
        they are the same physical part and should be listed on the same
        BOM entry.

  SUBST

    Sets the substutions allowed field for the part on the BOM.  Valid
    values are "YES" and "NO".  The default is YES if SUBST does not exist
    or is empty.

  DESC

    Explicit description string for the BOM.  By default, the BOM
    description is derived from the library name and the device name
    within that library.  If the DESC attribute is present and not empty,
    its contents will override that default.

  DVAL

    Detailed part value.  If present and not empty, this field overrides
    the part value string on the BOM and will be used to differentiate
    parts.  DVAL is always assumed to be the true part value, so is not
    effected by VALSTAT.  The purpose of DVAL is to provide more
    information than reasonable to show on the schematic.  Generally the
    standard VALUE attribute will be shown on the schematic with DVAL
    shown on the BOM.

  IS

    Indicates whether the part is critical for Intrinsic Safety.  Valid
    values are "YES" and "NO".  The default is NO if IS does not exist or
    is empty.

    Marking a part as critical to intrinsic safety may cause it to be
    shown differently in some BOM views, as may be required by Intrinsic
    Safety certification.
